I'd say it on tape, you know, anything that I choose to quote directly, I'll be more than happy to run by you.
And we're rolling, and we're talking to David.
And how do you pronounce your name?
It's David Bromwich.
Bromwich, yep.
G-O-F-M-G-O-I-C-V, right?
I-C-H.
H. Yep.
And you've been here how long?
I've been teaching at Yale, I guess, 17 years.
This is my 18th.
I think this is my eighth year on the board, and it's my second year as chair of the publication.
Could you do a swordfish on panini?
That'd be great.
Yeah, I published other universities in Yale, and that one time was Clark Court-Rey.
And now, I mean, I'm under contact to William Wang and Penguin for a biography first.
It's well on its way, closer to the end of the beginning, I think.
It's a biography, I think?
It's a critical biography.
It sounds fascinating.
I saw a message in Lincoln with that book.
I wish I had a little riff on Lincoln in my new book.
Well, he's always thinking.
When you read me, I hear co-teach a class on Lincoln from time to time.
Most of the reading is from his speeches and writings, and we did some from Webster, Emerson, and others.
So tell me a little bit about your chairman of the publication committee.
That's fascinating to me.
Tell me a little bit about that.
Well, we receive a packet of books, that is to say, cover notes, reader's reports, descriptions of books,
and often a sample from the book.
In different states of readiness for people, there are books...
that an editor is asking us to encourage, which maybe to get an early contract with, or just to tell the author Yale would be very interested.
I think at this stage they don't come to us unless the editor wants to go for a contract.
Then we get books that are
finished and only waiting for approval.
But under contract?
And needing a contract and approval or, you know, since they already have a contract.
And those books can be
In different states of, how to say, unfinished completion, too.
That is, some of them have been commented on and criticized by one reader or another in ways the author is asked to respond to.
So one reads through the whole package and tries to arrive at such a... Writing reports.
And I didn't realize how important that is.
They are important.
As a writer, it makes me sick.
I hope I haven't, you know, touched somebody's chances.
I can't really say if you're a writer.
Well, it's important that it's, in a way, the detail of what the referee says is more important than the yes or no.
Because there's very seldom a straight out no.
Well, that's not true.
I should say, on the...
on the Publications Committee, we don't see books that Garlock's can have.
They don't get to that.
The editors weed them out, and we're told that I think the proportion we've seen of the total books that includes manuscripts that disappear,
books that are offered in letters with heavy descriptions so that the editors can judge what's data.
I think we see only about one in a hundred that comes to this level, but of books that have been in some way encouraged by the editors, what proportion we see somewhat larger.
How often do you meet?
It used to be monthly, it's now every six weeks.
I'd like to sit in on one of these at some point.
And again, with the understanding... I have no position on that at all.
It would be John Donatitz and John Moran.
But I think, except for swearing you an oath of confidentiality... I'd be more interested to see how you feel about your deliberations.
Do you have anything to say about anything specific?
Feel free to ask them.
The publishing process is kind of what I'm trying to do here and get a handle on it.
You guys really are going to help me with that.
We're the last toll gate, however you want to be.
You know, what we do
Now, a little more than in earlier years, or under the immediately previous committees, is advisory.
But there's something said about, oh, every other book or so that can be passed on to the author or that is meant to be.
And do you try and read as many of these manuscripts as you can?
Of full manuscripts?
But that's only occasionally.
I mean, if there's a manuscript that an editor tells that you really ought to look at this much cost the discussion, or I want you to look at it for other reasons, even though it's already gone to the package of approval.
More often, I'll look at a manuscript in an earlier stage when an editor, usually John Culka or Jonathan Brent or Laura Heimer, when she was here, you know, wants
a view of it from someone outside who wants to know if their house is the same as yours or whatever.
And I still write these reports occasionally, and I get paid the usual readers for writing for that.
There's not time enough in my, I teach a full schedule, so.
Have you enjoyed doing this?
This job.
Have you enjoyed your reading on most occasions?
Yeah, I would say at least, you know, I feel I'm being useful, and sometimes with a startling negative, expletive reaction, and sometimes with the reverse, you know, maybe you can see them getting the book.
So what do you try to bring to the process in the review?
You know,
What I know in the areas of learning that I have any feelings with is poetry, romanticism, some projects.
on political writing or 18th century, 19th century politics.
I mean, there's things I know and things I don't know.
And if it comes down to giving an opinion on something I'm much farther from, where it's just more sense or does this make a joke or whatever, unless it's a very obvious case, I'm fairly modest.
They pull back and advise people to go to somewhere else.
And I think most, I mean, I think that's part of being a conscientious, you know, servant of the
of the craft is not to overextend.
So, and pardon my general question.
At some point, I want to get back to you.
Do you have a sense of the glory of the university press in the 21st century?
That's a good question.
And, of course, we're looking at arguably the most successful universities in the United States that operate in America.
Well, I think the statement of mission to the press says something.
Did I use that word?
No, you did not.
I'm revealing to you that I vaguely remember what it said, which is it's about to promote free inquiry and to represent what is
Most worthwhile in learning in the various fields.
Do you generally support the curriculum of the university?
Do I. I'm thinking in terms of one who's written at some length about special collections.
And there really is an argument in places like this where we should collect things that kind of vaguely support what we do as a... Yeah, where Yale collections are used, or where Yale talent and their archival parties are... I think Yale Press could do that more than it does.
I'd be happy to see it encourage that sort of use of local resources that are also of very general interest.
a little more than it does.
I mean, your book is a sort of example.
One can think of it as the Beinecke or the Franklin Project or whatnot.
You know, there are collections or editions that Yale has done relating to papers that are here, and the Franklin, for example.
and the Walpole is another where there are massive additions and the press is relating not to the curriculum but to the on-the-ground scholarly research.
Right now, if you look at departments like classic history, English, you know, I don't think there is
I don't think there is a very close correlation between what the press publishes and those deals.
I've talked to the editors about this, and I think in earlier years, say 35 years ago, this press and others probably erred on the side of local loyalty.
I think now the error may be on the other side.
It would do no harm and might do a lot of good all around, but for best editors to be more conversing with the scholars in their field.
So that's been a change of, you know, corporate culture at university presses generally, but maybe.
specifically here that people work in their offices.
Sometimes they work at home.
They can email or occasionally travel to conferences to visit scholars.
Sometimes editors meet Yale scholars in Chicago.
But I think formerly an eminent professor of literature or history, you know, telephones,
an older and gentile and literate person who's working at the net of the press.
My next book is on cotton mather and spectral evidence.
I think you'll like it, and oh, who would you like as a reader, and so on.
It worked rather differently.
I think it'll be brought back a little more into some kind of equipoise, some appropriate balance.
Part of this is that... And I didn't mean to sidetrack, but to get back to the original question about your... Oh, the idea of what a press does.
I think it should be considered the...
You know, the publishing backbone of intellectual life.
I mean, if the university press like Yale isn't that, what is?
You can't name any magazines.
You can't make fields of study that work that way.
You can't name a high school curriculum or a general college curriculum.
So, you know, I am for keeping it intellectually serious and academic.
Is Congress important, too?
I mean, this is a very successful press.
I think it's important that the press be on the map and have its reputation in such good order that its books are notes, as Yale Press books now are.
very nicely noticed in the New York Times.
Well, I mean, it's not a profit.
On the other hand, it's not a profit organization.
The bottom line, it doesn't work at all.
But it's profitable.
Yeah.
And it's a tricky balance to keep.
I mean, I think that you take these factors into consideration when you're sitting in judgment.
To my knowledge, I've never approved a book that people thought was
trash or was lacking, was trash, garbage, or lacking in the relevant learning.
But we've approved popular books, including some that, you know, persons on the board thought were written down in a way that they wouldn't do it themselves.
There's occasional books like that.
We've approved books that are also, you know, written too much in the terms of art of a given field of study, whether it's medicine or
or whatever, editors try to work with that and try to work more to bring the language into something like that.
I think that continues to be a problem.
Do you place a value on the quality of the writing?
At the extremes, definitely.
That is, if I see a project where, from the writing sample in the packet, I can tell that there's real mastery, both of how the material is conveyed and seemingly of the material, that's impressive.
And if I see a reservation in a letter, I'm probably going to use my own judgment and say, well, maybe that's an academic opponent of some sort.
starts accordingly, and if I see something where from the sample one can tell that it's abominably written, then the question comes up for the editor.
What's happened to the sample?
Are you working on the sentences?
And, you know, you press that way and hope that the author recognizes it's not yet in a suitable place.
Mary Lesh told me this morning that she used to go to the public in training.
There would be a list of what she called A books, B books, and C books.
And they were divided strictly by one marketability.
5,000 copies or more, and B would be somewhere between... I got the wrapper.
I got the wrapper.
I'd like water too.
It's not so overt now, but there's a print run on the bottom of each cover sheet.
Anyway, they appear in every item in the packet.
One can always ask the editor or, you know, Jonathan or Jonathan, or Tina, because we can get discussed among them before the production runs.
Sometimes the committee acting in an advisory way will say, this isn't going to sell as much as you think we don't believe.
Or, more generally, this is a better seller than you may realize now because the subject is so...
But these issues do come up in your meeting.
Yeah, but books aren't.
You don't know.
Just looking at an item, you don't know what the editor or the editorial board thinks of it or with what attitude.
But you don't necessarily take these factors into account in deciding whether or not you think it's your opponent.
Not at all.
Really, it's the merit that matters.
Well, I think there's some law of natural selection that's working now, even in academic publishing, more than it used to, and that a book that is
you know, promoted by two or three able persons in the field, and it receives pretty good but not extraordinary readers across, by a full professor at a respectable university may get turned down now before even reaching the board, whereas in earlier years it would just go forward.
But by the time they get to us,
that doesn't have been made.
This is a trade book.
We really can hope to sell 20,000 books, but it's a contribution to learning to John Lucas's recent books or examples like that.
Which book?
Lucas's books like on Winston Churchill and The End of the War.
There was a book on democracy.
Anyway, he's published three or four now, fairly small, not too much good as a pamphlet size, with Yale.
And these are in that middle category, if not runaway bestsellers.
Are they important in a scholarly?
They're good enough in a scholarly way.
They're felt to have an audience, and they sell well.
They sell better than a scholar.
So that...
That's an example of that little category.
My father, why don't you go ahead and have a break.
I will.
We're talking about, you know, tenure.
Do you feel some kind of...
The book is really being championed, especially an editor.
There's very pressure coming in.
Do you occasionally feel pressure coming in to give us a fast read on it?
To get a fast reading for the sake of a tender decision?
No, I've never felt that.
And I haven't.
I haven't especially felt
that the Yale Press editors are used in a networking way to advance the cases of people who are at that stage, and the book is the necessary bargaining system.
But I think in general that is a problem, and I think for academic publishing, including Yale Press books, the shapes that books get put into by their authors
have a lot to do with the conventions of academic research at a given time.
And in my field, those have changed enormously in the last of their years.
You see a different kind of book.
You don't see, for example, critical studies of an individual author very often, even as somebody's second or third book.
That's considered hard to publish and people don't even try it.
But cultural studies, it mixes something about material culture and the lifestyle of the high bourgeoisie in the end of the 19th century.
French literature and American literature.
I mean, if you get the right mix of things, academics, even in their middle stage of their careers, are willing to go out on a limb and try, and try to do a little over their head.
I mean, there is a perception among people who should know better that university presses are not necessarily at Yale, and I think this is probably not the case at Yale.
You know, they are fundamentally two public institutions.
You know, I know that from somebody who was recently an editor of Yale, who in going to conferences had a great deal of criticism from people in the humanities field saying,
You don't publish us.
You've given up on your mission, which is to serve us, which is to serve the office of advancing tenure and keeping things going in the profession.
And it's true that in that sense,
the better known university presses have fallen off.
If that is their responsibility, not only Yale, but Harvard, Chicago, others have fallen off nonsense.
Do you think there is a function, there is that function of the university press?
I'm sure it does, but it is the biggest misconception.
I think what gets how a book published on academic stress is formed is from a kind of negotiation between the author and the author
usually fairly heavily influenced by what's going in the field and an editor who should know the field but also stands for the general reader or stands for the reader with some knowledge but not the most usually not the most special i mean i'm one of the five world experts on the subject of the book and that in that way a book gets shaped that is not uh
exactly like a conference paper times 10, but that comes out of the interests and even, and for better or worse, the conventions of academic work in the field.
And I don't think the expectation is right on either side that, you know, from the academic perspective, they should just publish what we're doing.
Or from the fact perspective, the public has rejected the present-shaped academic discourse.
It's obscurantist and over-professionalized.
We'll do what we want.
will create a discovery.
They can.
Who are they going to go to?
They're going to go to scholars.
Where are scholars?
In universities.
Are you going to prevent them from being influenced by, you know, the going ways of doing things in their subject?
There's no way to do that, so.
Thank you.
Well, I once wrote something for, like,
It has disappeared from off their bibliography.
And there is somebody named David Bromwich who was supposed to review the book by Jamaica Kincaid, but it wasn't me.
So my confidence in it is, you know, correspondingly a little bit under pressure compared to what I think about book culture.
But I use it.
I use the Internet a lot to read the newspapers.
He's doing foreign papers that I can't read.
I was just doing a search of Amazon to see how they're doing pre-selling my book.
And that's okay.
I mean, whoever wants to buy it is buying it.
But there's no image there.
I'm doing a search of myself.
I'm the author of a book I haven't heard of before.
There could be two, Nicholas.
There are no other vast beings in the world.
It's either going to be myself or my brother.
There are only eight people in America.
Somebody types it in.
But on the other side, the book is not available.
You can't buy it.
This book I reportedly wrote.
But no, I mean, in terms of the electronic book, the kind of, as the alternative say, for publishing a dissertation that might only sell $500.
That means the book will creep out.
on your own.
You download it, you print it out on your own.
I suppose, but it even has these other different, you know.
Searching, linking.
Searching, I mean, that's really fantastic.
That really is, you can link to various things and equipment.
You get the entire citation that pops up.
That's exciting.
It's not an unusual view, but my view is.
For people who already know what they're doing, it's an enormous help because it speeds things up.
for people who don't know what they're doing it prevents them ever learning because they use the length culture they don't read through books they're convinced that their topical lines are you know piercing the structure of the universe and it it it promotes uh slickness speed um so do you allow your students to incite them oh i can't stop them i just want to stop them but i i recommend books mainly you require it
I recommend it.
I recommend secondaries.
I thought you meant you require the Internet.
No, no, no, I meant the book.
No, no, no, no, no, I meant the book.
In things like senior seminars and graduate papers, it's understood that some of their research will be in here.
Some of them do, but here, I mean, what I teach is mainly a bit of critical textual.
So, it's critical.
That is to say, I teach primary text like the Freeluge or Great Expectations.
And I'm compared effectually, you know, which would you prefer, the polio or the quartile, this or that way, that kind of work would be, which is integral, and needs a separatism.
I don't do that.
But I've done work in the body, and she was doing it often, and much more often.
Dissertation writers who reach the state where they know they need materials from the pamphlet form of the 1790s or whatnot, but they're not going to find anywhere else.
I'm going to pick up a little book about 15 times a year and the rest of this.
What would you be most interested in seeing?
I'd like to hear about or learn about the change in mores and the change in understanding of what the press was supposed to do and what
From the beginning?
From the beginning, which is when exactly?
Well, it'll be a hundred years in the end.
I'd also like to see it explain to me how the... I mean, I think...
I don't think there's any exact tracking that goes on in this, but to what extent the vision of intellectual culture and math culture in the society is tracked.
by the difference between the kind of books, Yale University Press and the kind of books that say Random House or Crown Publisher.
Yeah, I think that this university press has stayed very personal and intellectual by comparison with some.
It's only in the last seven or eight years that it's gone, started to go.
to trade in a significant way.
Do you think that's a bad thing or a good thing or a necessary thing?
I think the balance right now is about right.
I suppose I see myself as putting on the brakes when necessary and hoping to have good trade books to applaud.
But I don't think people work in university press editing or any other kind of editing need to be encouraged to go for the dollars, to go for the readers.
They feel it.
They want that kind of success.
And in wanting it, their reading will repress or labor or whatever.
But on the other hand, they argue that
If they really want to publish the kinds of books that the male would like to yield when the poets... Yeah, the others need to sell them.
And so there's that argument.
And then it's a persuasive argument.
There was a book by Alan Dershowitz that proposed
a legal method of handling authorization for torture after 9-11.
I think that was a fast idea.
I don't know that I would say it hit my ideas of what scholarly reflection ought to mean.
There's an example of
something just on the boundary for sure.
I wonder what that is.
It had advocates at the press, and it had readers' reports from representing Scotland.
It's interesting.
I checked again at Smith.
He's doing the history of the university, but he's not including the place.
Thank you very much.
Do you want tea, coffee, or tea?
I don't.
No, I'm fine.
In fact, you probably want to get your... Five more minutes.
Pick this up, perhaps, at another time.
Another time would be good.
Can you give me your email address and a phone number?
Email is...
David.
Bromwich at Yale.edu.
That's right.
And I emailed you.
What was that?
Dennis had said that he wanted me to look into the Vinland map.
Of course, he's the historian.
He wants you to look at the embarrassment.
And then he said there were two books published in the 1930s that were just outlined in the New Deal and Roosevelt.
Along with the academic culture of that car.
And he said they were just books that nobody else in America were to publish.
I certainly don't even know about that.
I think in literature it was more chaste, less ideological or whatever, at least in the 30s.
So do you think the press should be doing fiction by all means?
But I think it should be interested in
reprinted with maybe minimal readerly scholarly help, you know, an introduction or whatnot, you know, classics of fiction, books, distinguished books in translation that have gone out of print, that kind of thing.
I think Yale could do much more of it, but I don't think it should be published.
except that you're arguably, as I said earlier, you're one of your best-selling books of all time in the play.
It's a dramatic work.
That's true.
You're right.
That's an anomaly.
Or it continues to be.
I mean, it's very odd.
The year of that is 1950-something.
So, I mean, O'Neill...
had been three decades in American limelight, and it was a classic by then.
So it's not exactly like publishing some of those third, fourth or fourth novels, but it is a contemporary writing.
I'd like to take a photo of it.